---
title: "MCM 2014"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/MCM 2014
excerpt: 'This is our paper for The Mathematical Contest in Modeling where we won Meritorious Winner Awards in 2014'
date: 2014-12-30
venue: 'Github'
citation: 'Zhenzhen Li, Gaolei Li, Long Zhou.'
---  

## Abstract
Keep-Right-Except-To-Pass rule is accepted by most countries.Firstly, we build differrrent models to evaluate the performance of the rule.
In macroscopic aspect,we build the probabilistic model of demand for overtaking
after fitting time headway distribution,proving that it is unable to give consideration to
both traffic flow and safety.Therefore,we create a comprehensive evaluation function
to reflect the performance of the rule.It indicates that in the case of light traffic, with
traffic volume increases, the traffic condition becomes better;However,in the case of
heavy traffic, the conclusion is that with traffic volume increases, the traffic condition
becomes worse.
As to be microcosmic, we established a single overtaking model based on its physical
process. It defines that the Minimum/Maximum Road Capacity is the minimum/maximum allowed number of overtaking occurs simultaneously. Safety increases with the
Maximum Road Capacity and traffic volume enlarges with the Minimum Road Capacity.
The conclusion was drawn from the model test of real situation of freeway. The traffic
volume increases as the maximum speed limit decreases, while the safety stays stable;
Safety gets worsened when the minimum speed limit was increased, while the traffic
volume stays almost still.
We create a new overtaking rule. Taking highways with three lanes for instance, the
limitation of the speed should increase from the right to the left lanes. Overtaking is
prohibited on the lane with highest speed. As for cars on other two lanes, if they want
to pass another vehicle, they should move to the adjacent left lane. We conduct the
cellular automaton to simulate the cases under the new rule,keep-right-except-to-pass
rule and without no rule. We conclude that the new rule we suggest generally perform
better than keep-right-except-to-pass rule. As for left-driving countries, we can simply
change the orientation in the single overtaking model.
we design an intelligent transport system based on road network and intelligent vehicles. In addition, it is highlighted that our design take the drivers' satisfaction into
consideration to make it a humanization system. Furthermore, we implement computer simulation and comprehensive evaluation on this system.

## Link
[Full Paper](https://github.com/gitipanda/gitipanda.github.io/blob/master/files/MCM2014.pdf)

